Reading mode blog post (#424)
harvard-lil/website-static: app/_posts/2023-03-28-introducing-reading-mode-for-h2o.md

---
title: Introducing Reading Mode for H2O
author: catherine-brobston
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

> H2O is excited to announce the release of our “reading mode” - a new casebook view that offers students a cohesive digital reading format to facilitate deep reading. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are excited to announce the release of our “reading mode” - a new casebook view that offers students a cohesive digital format to facilitate deep reading. 
```

> We think better design of digital reading environments can capture the benefits of dynamic online books while orienting readers around an experience that encourages deeper analysis. Pairing that vision with [our finding](https://lil.law.harvard.edu/blog/2022/09/23/h2o-usability-study-do-students-want-physical-casebooks/) that more students are seeking digital reading options, we identified an opportunity to develop a digital reading experience that is streamlined, centralized, and most likely to encourage deep reading. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We think better design of digital reading environments can capture the benefits of dynamic online books while orienting readers to an experience that encourages deeper analysis. Pairing that vision with [our finding](https://lil.law.harvard.edu/blog/2022/09/23/h2o-usability-study-do-students-want-physical-casebooks/) that more students are seeking digital reading options, we identified an opportunity to develop a digital reading experience that is streamlined, centralized, and most likely to encourage deep reading. 
```

<!--more-->

> Reading mode transforms an H2O casebook to a format that more closely resembles an e-book. Casebooks now offer the ability to view and read an entire section at a time, a present and navigable table of contents, and a design that highlights different content types without interrupting the reading flow. Reading mode is optimized for loading speed over limited-bandwidth connections, which can be especially challenging given the average length of heavily-annotated casebooks. Attention was paid to consumption on mobile phones and tablets, devices which are rarely used for creating content, but frequently used by students when studying on the go. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reading mode transforms an H2O casebook into a format that more closely resembles an e-book. Casebooks now offer the ability to view and read an entire section at a time, a navigable table of contents, and a design that highlights different content types without interrupting the reading flow. Reading mode is optimized for loading speed over limited-bandwidth connections, which can be especially challenging given the average length of heavily-annotated casebooks. Attention was paid to consumption on mobile phones and tablets, devices which are rarely used for creating content, but frequently used by students when studying on the go. 
```

**Platform view**
![](https://lil-blog-media.s3.amazonaws.com/Reading_Mode_post.png)

**Reading mode**
![](https://lil-blog-media.s3.amazonaws.com/Reading_Mode_3.png)

> In 2022, we conducted a [user study](https://lil-blog-media.s3.amazonaws.com/H2O_Usability_Test_Summary.pdf) among law students to better understand their reading preferences. We found that most were eager for high-quality digital reading options that lower the cost of their education, reduce the number of heavy books they have to carry, and better integrate with modern study workflows centered around digital tools like Google docs. We sought to meet that need with a digital reading option that did not compromise reading comprehension, and our development process was informed by research to understand the differences in learning outcomes between students who read digital versus printed material. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In 2022, we conducted a [user study](https://lil-blog-media.s3.amazonaws.com/H2O_Usability_Test_Summary.pdf) among law students to better understand their reading preferences. We found that most were eager for high-quality digital reading options that lower the cost of their education, reduce the number of heavy books they have to carry, and better integrate with modern study workflows that include digital tools like Google docs. We sought to meet that need with a digital reading option that did not compromise reading comprehension, and our development process was informed by research to understand the differences in learning outcomes between students who read digital versus printed material. 
```
